Designing cooling channels for the thermoplastic injection process is a very important step in mold design.
A conformal cooling channel can significantly improve the efficiency and the quality of production in plastic injection molding.
This paper introduces an approach to generate spiral channels for conformal cooling.
The cooling channels designed by our algorithms has very simple connectivity and can achieve effective conformal cooling for the models with complex shapes.
The axial curves of cooling channels are constructed on a free-form surface conformal to the mold surface.
With the help of boundary-distance maps, algorithms are investigated to generate evenly distributed spiral curves on the surface.
The cooling channels derived from these spiral curves are conformal to the plastic part and introduce nearly no reduction at the rate of coolant flow.
Therefore, the channels are able to achieve uniform mold cooling.
Moreover, by having simple connectivity, these spiral channels can be fabricated by copper duct bending instead of expensive selective laser sintering.
Keywords: conformal cooling, spiral channels, free-form shape, boundary-distance map, injection molding.
As a common manufacturing process, plastic injection molding has been widely used to fabricate a variety of products.
During a plastic injection molding cycle, the plastic part and the mold must be cooled to room temperature so that the molded part can be solidified and with its shape maintained.
A substantial portion of the total molding cycle  could be required for cooling.
To improve the efficiency, cooling channels are usually integrated into the mold.
In general, conventional cooling channels in simple shapes are fabricated by drilling straight-line holes.
Without attaining the uniformity of surface temperature in a mold, the quality of plastic parts must be impaired by undesired defects, such as part warpage, sink mark, and differential shrinkage, etc.
In addition, non-uniform cooling also increases the cooling time.
The work presented in this paper is motivated by automating the design process of conformal cooling channels for products with free-form shapes.
Recently, we presented an approach in  to automatically generate circuit-like conformal cooling channels.
The approach starts from offsetting the mold surface into a working surface, upon which a centroidal Voronoi diagram is used to help generate the cooling circuits.

